# Master-Thesis
Several hepatic diseases are induced by alcohol abuse: the steatosis (fatty liver), the fibrosis (liver tissues destruction inducing scars) and the cirrhosis (liver full of scars, irreversible stage). Some acute stages of the disease (where an acute infection stage persists), as the severe Alcoholic Hepatitis (sAH) are possible and often encountered at the cirrhosis stage. The severe Alcoholic Hepatitis is diagnosed thanks to the presence of a jaundice, a recent alcohol abuse story and signs of hepatic decompensation. In some cases, a liver biopsy is necessary to confirm the diagnosis. The severe Alcoholic Hepatitis is a highly lethal disease as the 1-month mortality rate can be as high as 20\% to 50\%. The only treatment for the severe alcoholic hepatitis is a corticosteroid therapy, which only improves the short-term mortality. Moreover, a subset of the patients does not respond to the corticosteroids and the treatment must be stopped as there are several side effects associated with (as an increasing risk of infection). Currently, several hepatic scores as the Maddrey's Discriminant Function (MDF) and the Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) are used to predict the 1-month mortality in sAH. However, their predictive performances are limited. Machine Learning models (Logistic Regression, Random Forest and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP)) were developed to improve the 1-month mortality predictions. If reliable performances are obtained, it would help the physicians to decide whether to start or not a corticosteroid treatment. The best performances were obtained with the MLP with 2 hidden layers and the Random Forest. The balanced accuracy on the test set was around 83% in comparison to 78.80% for the MELD. The performances were also limited by the small amount of data. Finally, two models (Pycox and Cox-nnet) were developed to predict the survival function of the patients. Their performances were not very good (c-index=71% and 69% respectively) considering that the c-index was not weighted by the inverse of the probability of censoring and when compared to the literature of the Cox-nnet. In fact, the dataset was unbalanced as it contained 93/152 patients which were censored (did not experienced the event during the observation period). All the source code is freely available at https://github.com/aureliebeatse/Master-Thesis. 
